Home
Classification
Contact
Blog

The Most Poisonous Frogs on Earth
a blog dedicated to dart frogs

Welcome to my blog!

I created this website to gnorant at on wondered relation. Enough at tastes really so cousin am of. Extensive therefore supported by extremity of contented. Is pursuit compact demesne invited elderly be. View him she roof tell her case has sigh. Moreover is possible he admitted sociable concerns. This list is a partial list of animals that are poisonous to humans (and other animals):

Birds: pitohui, blue-capped ifrit, little shrikethrush
Frogs and toads: poison dart frogs, american toad, mantella...
Salamanders: pacific newts
Fish: lionfish, blowfish, pufferfish
Cephalopods: blue-ringed octopus, Pfeffer's flamboyant cuttlefish
Insects: blister beetle, birdwings, milkweed butterfly, battus butterfly

I'm passionate about dart frogs. Thanks for stopping by,

John Doe


Dart Frogs Taxonomy

Dart frogs are the focus of major phylogenetic studies, and undergo taxonomic changes frequently. The family Dendrobatidae was revised taxonomically in 2006 and contains 13 genera, with about 170 species, the most populated being:

Hyloxalus, 58 species
Ameerega, 31 species
Colostethus (a.k.a. rocket frogs), 21 species
Ranitomeya (a.k.a. thumbnail dart frogs), 21 species

» read more about taxonomy

Toxicity

Many poison dart frogs secrete lipophilic alkaloid toxins such as batrachotoxin (C31H42N2O6), epibatidine, histrionicotoxin, and pumiliotoxin 251D through their skin. Alkaloids in the skin glands of poison frogs serve as a chemical defense against predation, and they are therefore able to be active alongside potential predators during the day. About 28 structural classes of alkaloids are known in poison frogs.

phyllobates terribilis
The most toxic of poison dart frog species is Phyllobates terribilis. It is argued that dart frogs do not synthesize their poisons, but sequester the chemicals from arthropod prey items, such as ants, centipedes and mites – the diet-toxicity hypothesis

Skin coloration

Skin toxicity evolved alongside bright coloration, perhaps preceding it. Toxicity may have relied on a shift in diet to alkaloid-rich arthropods, which likely occurred at least four times among the dendrobatids. Conspicuous coloration in these frogs is further associated with diet specialization, body mass, aerobic capacity, and chemical defense.

Medicinal value

Chemicals extracted from the skin of Epipedobates tricolor may be shown to have medicinal value. Scientists use this poison to make a painkiller. One such chemical is a painkiller 200 times as potent as morphine, called epibatidine; however, the therapeutic dose is very close to the fatal dose. A derivative ABT-594 developed by Abbott Laboratories, called Tebanicline got as far as Phase II trials in humans

» read more about toxicity

Captive care

In captivity, most species thrive where the humidity is kept constant at 80 to 100% and where the temperature is around 72 °F (22 °C) to 80 °F (27 °C) during the day and no lower than 60 °F (16 °C) to 65 °F (18 °C) at night. Some species tolerate lower temperatures better than others.

» read more about captive care

Latest blog posts

Meet the blue poison dart frog
November 21, 2017

dendrobates azureus

As children, many of us kept frogs we had found in jars and vivariums, or just took them home to show to our friends. The frogs on this list are a different ball of wax, not creatures anyone in their right mind would want to play with or even touch – in many cases, in fact, they are deadly poisonous.

scientific name
	Dendrobates azureus
length
	up to 4.5 cm
color
	azure blue

read more

National Geography documentary
October 8, 2017

Check out this great HD documentary by National Geography!


DROP ME A LINE!

your name

your email

Do you own dart frogs?
 yes
 no, but I plan to
 no, and I don't plan to

your message


SPONSORED

Get $5 off today

This is the first book to cover all the poison frogs in detail. Limited offer for $25 $20!

Buy now ›

Blogposts archive

September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
older...

Related links

Josh's frogs
Poison Dart Frogs on NG
Tips and tricks


Stay connected with KillerFrogsTop of Page

KillerFrogs Newsletter

My newsletter will let you know when any new articles, tutorials and videos are released.

Add your email address!

KillerFrogs

Home
Frogs beginners guide
Frogs videos
FAQ
Contact

Resources

Supplies
Tutorials
Articles

John Doe
55 Crown Street
WC1V 5DJ Londen
United Kingdom
078 4321 3608
john.doe@killerfrogs.com